blog/2023-11-01-kubecon-na-2023/index.mdx, before:

---
slug: kubecon-na-2023
title: OpenCost at KubeCon 2023 Chicago
authors: [mattray]
tags: [opencost, cncf, kubecon]
---

Next week November 6-9 is KubeCon North America 2023 and we're excited about all the OpenCost-related events going on.

![KubeCon North America 2023](./img/opencost-kubecon-na-2023.png)

There will be an [OpenCost Working Session](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/program/project-engagement/#in-person-project-working-session) on Monday from 9:30 - 10:30am. Everyone is encouraged to attend, whether you're an end-user, contributor, or just wanting to learn more about the project. We are planning on discussing the status of Incubation, the roadmap for the project, and future development on carbon footprint and external asset costs.

OpenCost will be at the [Project Pavilion](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/program/project-engagement/#in-person-project-working-session) in kiosk F34. We're there the entire duration, so be sure to stop by and say "hi", ask questions, and get stickers and other swag. We're looking for more volunteers to staff the kiosk, why don't you drop by and help answer questions?

Mark Poko and JuanJo Ciarlante from Grafana Labs will be presenting "[Where's Your Money Going? The Beginners Guide to Measuring Kubernetes Costs](https://kccncna2023.sched.com/event/1R2vE/wheres-your-money-going-the-beginners-guide-to-measuring-kubernetes-costs-mark-poko-juanjo-ciarlante-grafana-labs)". They'll dive into Grafana Labs' usage of OpenCost and how they embed it in their Grafana Cloud platform. We're looking forward to the session Thursday November 9 from 2:55pm - 3:30pm.
W180

In addition to the OpenCost working session, kiosk, and the presentation we'll be making a major product feature announcement next week with an initial release. Be sure to join us at this week's [Community Meeting](https://bit.ly/opencost-calendar) for a sneak peek, or check the blog or visit the KubeCon kiosk to learn more about what's being announced next week. See you there!

Commit message:

Added Alex Meijer and Michael Dresser's talk.
Signed-off-by: Matt Ray <github@mattray.dev>

blog/2023-11-01-kubecon-na-2023/index.mdx, after:

---
slug: kubecon-na-2023
title: OpenCost at KubeCon 2023 Chicago
authors: [mattray]
tags: [opencost, cncf, kubecon]
---

Next week November 6-9 is KubeCon North America 2023 and we're excited about all the OpenCost-related events going on.

![KubeCon North America 2023](./img/opencost-kubecon-na-2023.png)

There will be an [OpenCost Working Session](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/program/project-engagement/#in-person-project-working-session) on Monday from 9:30 - 10:30am. Everyone is encouraged to attend, whether you're an end-user, contributor, or just wanting to learn more about the project. We are planning on discussing the status of Incubation, the roadmap for the project, and future development on carbon footprint and external asset costs.

OpenCost will be at the [Project Pavilion](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/program/project-engagement/#in-person-project-working-session) in kiosk F34. We're there the entire duration, so be sure to stop by and say "hi", ask questions, and get stickers and other swag. We're looking for more volunteers to staff the kiosk, why don't you drop by and help answer questions?

Kubecost's Alex Meijer and Michael Dresser are presenting "[Node Size Matters - Running K8s as Cheaply as Possible](https://kccncna2023.sched.com/event/95e6d14ed317f08831b04d6d0c535a13)". They will be presenting a study of the system overhead, one of the biggest "hidden" costs of using Kubernetes, across cloud providers' node families and demonstrate new OpenCost functionality for measuring system overhead. This informative session is Wednesday, November 8 from 5:25pm - 6:00pm.

Mark Poko and JuanJo Ciarlante from Grafana Labs will be presenting "[Where's Your Money Going? The Beginners Guide to Measuring Kubernetes Costs](https://kccncna2023.sched.com/event/1R2vE/wheres-your-money-going-the-beginners-guide-to-measuring-kubernetes-costs-mark-poko-juanjo-ciarlante-grafana-labs)". They'll dive into Grafana Labs' usage of OpenCost and how they embed it in their Grafana Cloud platform. We're looking forward to the session Thursday, November 9 from 2:55pm - 3:30pm.

In addition to the OpenCost working session, kiosk, and the presentation we'll be making a major product feature announcement next week with an initial release. Be sure to join us at this week's [Community Meeting](https://bit.ly/opencost-calendar) for a sneak peek, or check the blog or visit the KubeCon kiosk to learn more about what's being announced next week. See you there!
