docs/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Overview

OpenCost is a vendor-neutral open source project for measuring and allocating infrastructure and container costs. It’s built for Kubernetes cost monitoring to power real-time cost monitoring, showback, and chargeback.

Below are common documentation pages for the OpenCost Project:

## Quick Installation

Check out our [Installation options](install) to start monitoring and managing your spend in minutes.

## Staying in the loop

You can stay up to date with Kubecost by joining us on [Slack](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03D56FPD4G) and watching the project on [GitHub](https://github.com/kubecost/opencost).

## Getting Started

Here are a few resources we've gathered to help you get started with OpenCost.

- [Troubleshooting helm chart installation](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/troubleshoot-install.md)
- [Configuration](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/getting-started.md)
- [Understanding cost allocation](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/cost-allocation.md)
- [Cost monitoring best practices](http://blog.kubecost.com/blog/cost-monitoring/)

## Specification

The OpenCost specification describes a vendor-neutral implementation for Kubernetes cost monitoring. The latest release is hosted [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/196Dq_GHOGeva5ojwF2jd3L21ab-Y7wp5).

## Advanced Configuration

- [Allocating out of cluster costs (AWS)](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/aws-out-of-cluster.md)
- [Allocating out of cluster costs (Azure)](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/azure-out-of-cluster.md)
- [Allocating out of cluster costs (GCP)](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/gcp-out-of-cluster.md)
- [AWS Spot feed integration](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/getting-started.md#spot-nodes)

Contact us via email (<support@kubecost.com>) or join us on [Slack](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03D56FPD4G) if you have questions!

Commit message:

Update links for slack join workflow and channel

docs/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Overview

OpenCost is a vendor-neutral open source project for measuring and allocating infrastructure and container costs. It’s built for Kubernetes cost monitoring to power real-time cost monitoring, showback, and chargeback.

Below are common documentation pages for the OpenCost Project:

## Quick Installation

Check out our [Installation options](install) to start monitoring and managing your spend in minutes.

## Staying in the loop

You can stay up to date with Kubecost by joining us on [CNCF Slack](https://slack.cncf.io/) in the [#opencost](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03D56FPD4G) channel and by watching the project on [GitHub](https://github.com/kubecost/opencost).

## Getting Started

Here are a few resources we've gathered to help you get started with OpenCost.

- [Troubleshooting helm chart installation](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/troubleshoot-install.md)
- [Configuration](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/getting-started.md)
- [Understanding cost allocation](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/cost-allocation.md)
- [Cost monitoring best practices](http://blog.kubecost.com/blog/cost-monitoring/)

## Specification

The OpenCost specification describes a vendor-neutral implementation for Kubernetes cost monitoring. The latest release is hosted [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/196Dq_GHOGeva5ojwF2jd3L21ab-Y7wp5).

## Advanced Configuration

- [Allocating out of cluster costs (AWS)](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/aws-out-of-cluster.md)
- [Allocating out of cluster costs (Azure)](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/azure-out-of-cluster.md)
- [Allocating out of cluster costs (GCP)](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/gcp-out-of-cluster.md)
- [AWS Spot feed integration](https://github.com/kubecost/docs/blob/main/getting-started.md#spot-nodes)

Contact us via email (<support@kubecost.com>) or join us on [CNCF Slack](https://slack.cncf.io/) in the [#opencost](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03D56FPD4G) channel if you have questions!
