docs/install.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# OpenCost Setup

Follow the steps below to install OpenCost.


## Quick Start Installation

This command will get you started immediately with OpenCost. For a more detailed setup tutorial, continue to the next section.

```sh
helm install my-prometheus --repo https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts prometheus \
  --namespace prometheus --create-namespace \
  --set pushgateway.enabled=false \
  --set alertmanager.enabled=false \
  -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/prometheus/extraScrapeConfigs.yaml

kubectl apply --namespace opencost -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/opencost.yaml
```

## Prerequisites

Install Prometheus using the following command:

```sh
helm install my-prometheus --repo https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts prometheus \
  --namespace prometheus --create-namespace \
  --set pushgateway.enabled=false \
  --set alertmanager.enabled=false \
  -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/prometheus/extraScrapeConfigs.yaml
```

## Installing OpenCost

If providing your own Prometheus:
 1. Set the PROMETHEUS_SERVER_ENDPOINT [environment variable](https://github.com/opencost/opencost/blob/develop/kubernetes/opencost.yaml#L154) to the address of your prometheus server
 2. Add the [scrapeConfig](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/prometheus/extraScrapeConfigs.yaml) to it

If you used the Prometheus install command from `Prerequisites`, the command below will install OpenCost on your cluster:

```sh
kubectl apply --namespace opencost -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/opencost.yaml
```

Wait for the pod to be ready and then port forward with:

```sh
kubectl port-forward --namespace opencost service/opencost 9003
```

## Testing

To test that the server is running, you can hit [http://localhost:9003/allocation/compute?window=60m](http://localhost:9003/allocation/compute?window=60m)

See more [API Examples](./api.md).

Or use [kubectl cost](./kubectl-cost.md):

```sh
kubectl cost --service-port 9003 --service-name opencost --kubecost-namespace opencost --allocation-path /allocation/compute  \
    namespace \
    --window 5m \
    --show-efficiency=true
```

Output:

```
+---------+---------------+--------------------+-----------------+
| CLUSTER | NAMESPACE     | MONTHLY RATE (ALL) | COST EFFICIENCY |
+---------+---------------+--------------------+-----------------+
|         | opencost      |          18.295200 |        0.231010 |
|         | prometheus    |          17.992800 |        0.000000 |
|         | kube-system   |          11.383200 |        0.033410 |
+---------+---------------+--------------------+-----------------+
| SUMMED  |               |          47.671200 |                 |
+---------+---------------+--------------------+-----------------+
```

## Updating OpenCost
To update your OpenCost to the most recent version, using a previously unmodified opencost.yaml manifest, enter the following command. This will update OpenCost to the latest version.

```sh
kubectl -n opencost rollout restart deployment
```

To check logs to verify the version of your OpenCost:

```sh
$  kubectl logs -n opencost deployment/opencost | head
2022-09-02T18:20:34.327989163Z ??? Log level set to info
2022-09-02T18:20:34.328206357Z INF Starting cost-model (git commit "x.xx.x")
```

### Sidegrading OpenCost
If you wish to modify OpenCost to a previous version, start with the following command in order to modify the opencost.yaml manifest:

`$ vim opencost.yaml`

In the line `quay.io/kubecost1/kubecost-cost-model:latest`, change `latest` to the desired version number in the format `prod-x.xx.x`. Then enter the following command to apply the updated opencost.yaml manifest:

```sh
$ kubectl apply -f opencost.yaml -n opencost         
namespace/opencost unchanged
serviceaccount/opencost unchanged
clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/opencost unchanged
clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/opencost unchanged
deployment.apps/opencost configured
service/opencost unchanged
```

Finally, check the logs to verify the version of your OpenCost has successfully been changed:

```sh
$  kubectl logs -n opencost deployment/opencost | head
2022-09-02T18:20:34.327989163Z ??? Log level set to info
2022-09-02T18:20:34.328206357Z INF Starting cost-model (git commit "x.xx.x")
```

## Deleting OpenCost
To delete OpenCost, enter the following command:

`kubectl delete -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/opencost.yaml`

## Troubleshooting

If you get an error like this, check your Prometheus target is correct in the OpenCost deployment.

```bash
Error: failed to query allocation API: failed to port forward query: received non-200 status code 500 and data: {"code":500,"status":"","data":null,"message":"Error: error computing allocation for ...
```

Negative values for idle: ensure you added the scrape target (above) for OpenCost.

---

## Help

Please let us know if you run into any issues, we are here to help!

Contact us via email (<support@kubecost.com>) or join us on [CNCF Slack](https://slack.cncf.io/) in the [#opencost](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03D56FPD4G) channel if you have questions!

Commit message:

Added information about Prometheus configuration
Recommendation on reducing metrics ingestion and warning about KSM emission overlapping.

docs/install.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# OpenCost Setup

Follow the steps below to install OpenCost.


## Quick Start Installation

This command will get you started immediately with OpenCost. For a more detailed setup tutorial, continue to the next section.

```sh
helm install my-prometheus --repo https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts prometheus \
  --namespace prometheus --create-namespace \
  --set pushgateway.enabled=false \
  --set alertmanager.enabled=false \
  -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/prometheus/extraScrapeConfigs.yaml

kubectl apply --namespace opencost -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/opencost.yaml
```

## Prerequisites: Prometheus

Opencost is relying on metrics scraped by Prometheus. For express installation of Prometheus use the following command:

```sh
helm install my-prometheus --repo https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts prometheus \
  --namespace prometheus --create-namespace \
  --set pushgateway.enabled=false \
  --set alertmanager.enabled=false \
  -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/prometheus/extraScrapeConfigs.yaml
```

This Prometheus installation is based on Prom community helm chart, and by default your Prometheus will be scraping a lots of unneccessary metrics and taking quite a lot of space. For production purposes you could refer to the Kubecost [user metrics list](https://guide.kubecost.com/hc/en-us/articles/4425134686743-User-Metrics) to filter with 'keep', for reference take a look at scraping config at the ConfigMap section of Kubecost installation [chart](https://github.com/kubecost/cost-analyzer-helm-chart/blob/develop/kubecost.yaml).

If you are going to conect existing Prometheus instance which is already consuming KSM metrics, please consider visiting this page about [KSM metrics emission](https://guide.kubecost.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408095797911), because Opencost currently implements the same architecture and you maight get overlapping metrics.

## Installing OpenCost

If providing your own Prometheus:
 1. Set the PROMETHEUS_SERVER_ENDPOINT [environment variable](https://github.com/opencost/opencost/blob/develop/kubernetes/opencost.yaml#L154) to the address of your prometheus server
 2. Add the [scrapeConfig](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/prometheus/extraScrapeConfigs.yaml) to it

If you used the Prometheus install command from `Prerequisites`, the command below will install OpenCost on your cluster:

```sh
kubectl apply --namespace opencost -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/opencost.yaml
```

Wait for the pod to be ready and then port forward with:

```sh
kubectl port-forward --namespace opencost service/opencost 9003
```

## Testing

To test that the server is running, you can hit [http://localhost:9003/allocation/compute?window=60m](http://localhost:9003/allocation/compute?window=60m)

See more [API Examples](./api.md).

Or use [kubectl cost](./kubectl-cost.md):

```sh
kubectl cost --service-port 9003 --service-name opencost --kubecost-namespace opencost --allocation-path /allocation/compute  \
    namespace \
    --window 5m \
    --show-efficiency=true
```

Output:

```
+---------+---------------+--------------------+-----------------+
| CLUSTER | NAMESPACE     | MONTHLY RATE (ALL) | COST EFFICIENCY |
+---------+---------------+--------------------+-----------------+
|         | opencost      |          18.295200 |        0.231010 |
|         | prometheus    |          17.992800 |        0.000000 |
|         | kube-system   |          11.383200 |        0.033410 |
+---------+---------------+--------------------+-----------------+
| SUMMED  |               |          47.671200 |                 |
+---------+---------------+--------------------+-----------------+
```

## Updating OpenCost
To update your OpenCost to the most recent version, using a previously unmodified opencost.yaml manifest, enter the following command. This will update OpenCost to the latest version.

```sh
kubectl -n opencost rollout restart deployment
```

To check logs to verify the version of your OpenCost:

```sh
$  kubectl logs -n opencost deployment/opencost | head
2022-09-02T18:20:34.327989163Z ??? Log level set to info
2022-09-02T18:20:34.328206357Z INF Starting cost-model (git commit "x.xx.x")
```

### Sidegrading OpenCost
If you wish to modify OpenCost to a previous version, start with the following command in order to modify the opencost.yaml manifest:

`$ vim opencost.yaml`

In the line `quay.io/kubecost1/kubecost-cost-model:latest`, change `latest` to the desired version number in the format `prod-x.xx.x`. Then enter the following command to apply the updated opencost.yaml manifest:

```sh
$ kubectl apply -f opencost.yaml -n opencost         
namespace/opencost unchanged
serviceaccount/opencost unchanged
clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/opencost unchanged
clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/opencost unchanged
deployment.apps/opencost configured
service/opencost unchanged
```

Finally, check the logs to verify the version of your OpenCost has successfully been changed:

```sh
$  kubectl logs -n opencost deployment/opencost | head
2022-09-02T18:20:34.327989163Z ??? Log level set to info
2022-09-02T18:20:34.328206357Z INF Starting cost-model (git commit "x.xx.x")
```

## Deleting OpenCost
To delete OpenCost, enter the following command:

`kubectl delete -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencost/opencost/develop/kubernetes/opencost.yaml`

## Troubleshooting

If you get an error like this, check your Prometheus target is correct in the OpenCost deployment.

```bash
Error: failed to query allocation API: failed to port forward query: received non-200 status code 500 and data: {"code":500,"status":"","data":null,"message":"Error: error computing allocation for ...
```

Negative values for idle: ensure you added the scrape target (above) for OpenCost.

---

## Help

Please let us know if you run into any issues, we are here to help!

Contact us via email (<support@kubecost.com>) or join us on [CNCF Slack](https://slack.cncf.io/) in the [#opencost](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03D56FPD4G) channel if you have questions!
