docs/configuration/gcp.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Google Cloud Platform
---
import CloudCosts from './_cloud_costs.mdx';
import CloudCostsInfo from './_cloud_costs_info.mdx';
import CustomPrometheus from './_custom_prometheus.mdx';
import Helm from './_helm.mdx';
import InstallManifest from './_install_manifest.mdx';
import InstallOpenCost from './_install_opencost.mdx';
import InstallPrometheus from './_install_prometheus.mdx';
import Installing from './_installing.mdx';
import Namespace from './_namespace.mdx';
import UpdateOpenCost from './_update_opencost.mdx';

# Installing on Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

OpenCost may be installed on Kubernetes clusters running on EC2 or on Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS). You will need to install Prometheus, configure your cluster, and then install OpenCost.
<Installing/>

## Install Prometheus

<InstallPrometheus/>
<CustomPrometheus/>

### GCP Managed Prometheus

#### Failure of OpenCost's PromQL Queries

If you use *GCP Managed Prometheus*, OpenCost's Prometheus queries may fail. This issue arises due to the relabeling performed by *GCP Managed Prometheus*, which renames the namespace label as exported_namespace, disrupting OpenCost's operation.

When this issue occurs, you may encounter an error message similar to the one below:

```bash
ERR CostDataRange: Request Error: Prometheus communication error: 422 (Unprocessable Entity) Headers: { Content-Type: [ application/json; charset=UTF-8 ], Server: [ ESF ], Vary: [ Origin, X-Origin, Referer ], X-Frame-Options: [ SAMEORIGIN ], Cache-Control: [ private ], X-Content-Type-Options: [ nosniff ], X-Xss-Protection: [ 0 ], Date: [ Thu, 28 Sep 2023 10:33:58 GMT ] }, Body: {"status":"error","errorType":"execution","error":"found duplicate series for the match group {namespace=\"redacted\", persistentvolumeclaim=\"redacted\"} on the left hand-side of the operation: [{namespace=\"redacted\", persistentvolumeclaim=\"redacted\", storageclass=\"standard\", volumename=\"redacted\"}, {namespace=\"redacted\", persistentvolumeclaim=\"redacted\", storageclass=\"standard\", volumename=\"redacted\"}];many-to-many matching not allowed: matching labels must be unique on one side"} Query: avg(avg(kube_persistentvolumeclaim_info{volumename != "", }) by (persistentvolumeclaim, storageclass, namespace, volumename, cluster_id, kubernetes_node)
	*
	on (persistentvolumeclaim, namespace, cluster_id, kubernetes_node) group_right(storageclass, volumename)
	sum(kube_persistentvolumeclaim_resource_requests_storage_bytes{}) by (persistentvolumeclaim, namespace, cluster_id, kubernetes_node, kubernetes_name)) by (persistentvolumeclaim, storageclass, namespace, cluster_id, volumename, kubernetes_node)
```

To resolve this issue, you need to edit the CRD's PodMonitoring and ClusterPodMonitoring and set the targetLabels key to the following value to turn off the labels override:

```yaml
  targetLabels:
    metadata: []
```

For more details, please refer to this [discussion](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03D56FPD4G/p1695898103041549).

## Create the OpenCost Namespace

<Namespace/>

## GCP Configuration

### Cost Allocation

OpenCost is designed to automatically identify the cloud service provider (CSP) in use by reading node information from `node.spec.providerID`. When Google Cloud Platform (GCP) is detected as the provider, OpenCost attempts to retrieve data for node pricing. This process utilizes the [GCP Cloud Billing API](https://cloud.google.com/billing/), which necessitates an API key.

### Configuring GCP Pricing

To enable OpenCost to fetch pricing information from your GCP project, you must generate an API key to replace the default key in the `CLOUD_PROVIDER_API_KEY` environment variable. You will need to follow the instructions provided in [Get Google Cloud pricing information](https://cloud.google.com/billing/v1/how-tos/catalog-api):

1. [Activate the Cloud Billing API](https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=cloudbilling.googleapis.com).
2. [Generate an API key with the appropriate access permissions](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/api-keys#create).
3. Optionally, you can edit the key to restrict its access to the Cloud Billing API.

## GCP Cloud Costs

<CloudCostsInfo/>

To configure OpenCost for your GCP account, create a GCP service key with the following commands in your command line to generate and export one. Make sure your GCP project is where your external costs are being run.

``` sh
export PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud config get-value project)
gcloud iam service-accounts create compute-viewer-opencost --display-name "Compute Read Only Account Created For Opencost" --format json
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID --member serviceAccount:compute-viewer-opencost@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role roles/compute.viewer
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID --member serviceAccount:compute-viewer-opencost@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role roles/bigquery.user
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID --member serviceAccount:compute-viewer-opencost@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role roles/bigquery.dataViewer
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID --member serviceAccount:compute-viewer-opencost@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role roles/bigquery.jobUser
gcloud iam service-accounts keys create ./compute-viewer-opencost-key.json --iam-account compute-viewer-opencost@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

You can then get your service account key:
```
cat compute-viewer-opencost-key.json
```

* `<KEY_JSON>` is the GCP service key created above. This value should be left as a JSON when inserted into the configuration object
* `<PROJECT_ID>` is the Project ID in the GCP service key.
* `<BILLING_DATA_DATASET>` requires a BigQuery dataset prefix (e.g. billing_data) in addition to the BigQuery table name. A full example is `billing_data.gcp_billing_export_v1_018AIF_74KD1D_534A2`.

Set these values into the to the GCP array in the `cloud-integration.json`:

``` json
{
  "gcp": {
    "bigQuery": [
      {
        "projectID": "<GCP_PROJECT_ID>",
        "dataset": "detailedbilling",
        "table": "gcp_billing_export_resource_v1_0121AC_C6F51B_690771",
        "authorizer": {
          "authorizerType": "GCPServiceAccountKey",
          "key": {
            "type": "service_account",
            "project_id": "<GCP_PROJECT_ID>",
            "private_key_id": "<PRIVATE_KEY_ID>",
            "private_key": "<PRIVATE_KEY>",
            "client_email": "<CLIENT_EMAIL>",
            "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
            "auth_uri": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
            "token_uri": "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token",
            "auth_provider_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs",
            "client_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/<CERT_NAME>"
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

<CloudCosts/>

## Install OpenCost

<Helm/>

### Using the OpenCost Helm Chart

<InstallOpenCost/>

### Updating OpenCost via Helm

<UpdateOpenCost/>

Commit message:

Cloud Costs templatized for installation, GCP API key, removed cloud custom pricing
Custom pricing wasn't working right, will revisit

Signed-off-by: Matt Ray <github@mattray.dev>

docs/configuration/gcp.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Google Cloud Platform
---
import CloudCosts from './_cloud_costs.mdx';
import CloudCostsInfo from './_cloud_costs_info.mdx';
import CustomPrometheus from './_custom_prometheus.mdx';
import Helm from './_helm.mdx';
import InstallCloudCosts from './_install_cloud_costs.mdx';
import InstallManifest from './_install_manifest.mdx';
import InstallOpenCost from './_install_opencost.mdx';
import InstallPrometheus from './_install_prometheus.mdx';
import Installing from './_installing.mdx';
import Namespace from './_namespace.mdx';
import UpdateOpenCost from './_update_opencost.mdx';

# Installing on Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

OpenCost may be installed on Kubernetes clusters running on EC2 or on Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS). You will need to install Prometheus, configure your cluster, and then install OpenCost.
<Installing/>

## Install Prometheus

<InstallPrometheus/>
<CustomPrometheus/>

### GCP Managed Prometheus

#### Failure of OpenCost's PromQL Queries

If you use *GCP Managed Prometheus*, OpenCost's Prometheus queries may fail. This issue arises due to the relabeling performed by *GCP Managed Prometheus*, which renames the namespace label as exported_namespace, disrupting OpenCost's operation.

When this issue occurs, you may encounter an error message similar to the one below:

```bash
ERR CostDataRange: Request Error: Prometheus communication error: 422 (Unprocessable Entity) Headers: { Content-Type: [ application/json; charset=UTF-8 ], Server: [ ESF ], Vary: [ Origin, X-Origin, Referer ], X-Frame-Options: [ SAMEORIGIN ], Cache-Control: [ private ], X-Content-Type-Options: [ nosniff ], X-Xss-Protection: [ 0 ], Date: [ Thu, 28 Sep 2023 10:33:58 GMT ] }, Body: {"status":"error","errorType":"execution","error":"found duplicate series for the match group {namespace=\"redacted\", persistentvolumeclaim=\"redacted\"} on the left hand-side of the operation: [{namespace=\"redacted\", persistentvolumeclaim=\"redacted\", storageclass=\"standard\", volumename=\"redacted\"}, {namespace=\"redacted\", persistentvolumeclaim=\"redacted\", storageclass=\"standard\", volumename=\"redacted\"}];many-to-many matching not allowed: matching labels must be unique on one side"} Query: avg(avg(kube_persistentvolumeclaim_info{volumename != "", }) by (persistentvolumeclaim, storageclass, namespace, volumename, cluster_id, kubernetes_node)
	*
	on (persistentvolumeclaim, namespace, cluster_id, kubernetes_node) group_right(storageclass, volumename)
	sum(kube_persistentvolumeclaim_resource_requests_storage_bytes{}) by (persistentvolumeclaim, namespace, cluster_id, kubernetes_node, kubernetes_name)) by (persistentvolumeclaim, storageclass, namespace, cluster_id, volumename, kubernetes_node)
```

To resolve this issue, you need to edit the CRD's PodMonitoring and ClusterPodMonitoring and set the targetLabels key to the following value to turn off the labels override:

```yaml
  targetLabels:
    metadata: []
```

For more details, please refer to this [discussion](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03D56FPD4G/p1695898103041549).

## Create the OpenCost Namespace

<Namespace/>

## GCP Configuration

### Cost Allocation

OpenCost is designed to automatically identify the cloud service provider (CSP) in use by reading node information from `node.spec.providerID`. When Google Cloud Platform (GCP) is detected as the provider, OpenCost attempts to retrieve data for node pricing. This process utilizes the [GCP Cloud Billing API](https://cloud.google.com/billing/), which necessitates an API key.

### Configuring GCP Pricing

To enable OpenCost to fetch pricing information from your GCP project, you must generate an API key to replace the default key in the `CLOUD_PROVIDER_API_KEY` environment variable. You will need to follow the instructions provided in [Get Google Cloud pricing information](https://cloud.google.com/billing/v1/how-tos/catalog-api):

1. [Activate the Cloud Billing API](https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=cloudbilling.googleapis.com).
2. [Generate an API key with the appropriate access permissions](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/api-keys#create).
3. Optionally, you can edit the key to restrict its access to the Cloud Billing API.

### Add the GCP API Key to OpenCost

```yaml
opencost:
  exporter:
    cloudProviderApiKey: "op3nco57op3Nco57OP3Nco57op3nco57op3Nco57"
```

Or you can pass it from the CLI to Helm with the following flag:

```sh
--set opencost.exporter.cloudProviderApiKey='op3nco57op3Nco57OP3Nco57op3nco57op3Nco57'
```

## GCP Cloud Costs

<CloudCostsInfo/>

To configure OpenCost for your GCP account, create a GCP service key with the following commands in your command line to generate and export one. Make sure your GCP project is where your external costs are being run.

```sh
export PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud config get-value project)
gcloud iam service-accounts create compute-viewer-opencost --display-name "Compute Read Only Account Created For Opencost" --format json
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID --member serviceAccount:compute-viewer-opencost@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role roles/compute.viewer
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID --member serviceAccount:compute-viewer-opencost@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role roles/bigquery.user
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID --member serviceAccount:compute-viewer-opencost@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role roles/bigquery.dataViewer
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID --member serviceAccount:compute-viewer-opencost@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role roles/bigquery.jobUser
gcloud iam service-accounts keys create ./compute-viewer-opencost-key.json --iam-account compute-viewer-opencost@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

You can then get your service account key:

```sh
cat compute-viewer-opencost-key.json
```

* `<KEY_JSON>` is the GCP service key created above. This value should be left as a JSON when inserted into the configuration object
* `<PROJECT_ID>` is the Project ID in the GCP service key.
* `<BILLING_DATA_DATASET>` requires a BigQuery dataset prefix (e.g. billing_data) in addition to the BigQuery table name. A full example is `billing_data.gcp_billing_export_v1_018AIF_74KD1D_534A2`.

Set these values into the to the GCP array in the `cloud-integration.json`:

``` json
{
  "gcp": {
    "bigQuery": [
      {
        "projectID": "<GCP_PROJECT_ID>",
        "dataset": "detailedbilling",
        "table": "gcp_billing_export_resource_v1_0121AC_C6F51B_690771",
        "authorizer": {
          "authorizerType": "GCPServiceAccountKey",
          "key": {
            "type": "service_account",
            "project_id": "<GCP_PROJECT_ID>",
            "private_key_id": "<PRIVATE_KEY_ID>",
            "private_key": "<PRIVATE_KEY>",
            "client_email": "<CLIENT_EMAIL>",
            "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
            "auth_uri": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
            "token_uri": "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token",
            "auth_provider_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs",
            "client_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/<CERT_NAME>"
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

<InstallCloudCosts/>
<CloudCosts/>

## Install OpenCost

<Helm/>

### Using the OpenCost Helm Chart

<InstallOpenCost/>

### Updating OpenCost via Helm

<UpdateOpenCost/>
