docs/configuration/on-prem.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# On-Premises Pricing Configuration

On-premises cluster pricing is supported in OpenCost by providing default prices for node data via the [default.json](https://github.com/opencost/opencost/blob/develop/configs/default.json).

```
{
    "provider": "custom",
    "description": "Default prices based on GCP us-central1",
    "CPU": "0.031611",
    "spotCPU": "0.006655",
    "RAM": "0.004237",
    "spotRAM": "0.000892",
    "GPU": "0.95",
    "storage": "0.00005479452",
    "zoneNetworkEgress": "0.01",
    "regionNetworkEgress": "0.01",
    "internetNetworkEgress": "0.12"
}
```

This file is loaded when the OpenCost starts up, providing default prices. You may verify these values by querying Prometheus:
```
kubectl port-forward -n prometheus service/my-prometheus-server 9003:80
curl -s 'http://localhost:9003/api/v1/query?query=node_cpu_hourly_cost' | jq '.data.result[0]'
{
  "metric": {
    "__name__": "node_cpu_hourly_cost",
    "instance": "mom.bottlebru.sh",
    "instance_type": "k3s",
    "job": "opencost",
    "node": "mom.bottlebru.sh",
    "provider_id": "k3s://mom.bottlebru.sh"
  },
  "value": [
    1675411231.44,
    "0.031611"
  ]
}
```
Similarly you can query `node_ram_hourly_cost`, `node_total_hourly_cost`, and `pv_hourly_cost`.

## Modified Default.json Example

You can update the prices in the `default.json` file and rebuild your container with the modified source (make sure permissions are 644 on the `default.json`).
```
{
    "provider": "custom",
    "description": "Modified prices based on arbitrary whims",
    "CPU": "1.25",
    "spotCPU": "0.006655",
    "RAM": "0.50",
    "spotRAM": "0.000892",
    "GPU": "0.95",
    "storage": "0.25",
    "zoneNetworkEgress": "0.01",
    "regionNetworkEgress": "0.01",
    "internetNetworkEgress": "0.12"
}
```
produces output similar to
```
kubectl port-forward -n prometheus service/my-prometheus-server 9003:80
curl -s 'http://localhost:9003/api/v1/query?query=node_cpu_hourly_cost' | jq '.data.result[0]'
{
  "metric": {
    "__name__": "node_cpu_hourly_cost",
    "instance": "mom.bottlebru.sh",
    "instance_type": "k3s",
    "job": "opencost",
    "node": "ndnd.bottlebru.sh",
    "provider_id": "k3s://mom.bottlebru.sh"
  },
  "value": [
    1675416174.822,
    "1.25"
  ]
}
```

This is reflected in the OpenCost UI with substantially higher CPU, RAM and PV costs than before the update.

## Custom pricing using the OpenCost Helm Chart

### Method 1

You can either create your own [ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/) containing your own pricing as structured below:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: CONFIGMAP_NAME_HERE
data:
  default.json: |
    {
      "provider": "custom",
      "description": "Modified prices based on arbitrary whims",
      "CPU": "1.25",
      "spotCPU": "0.006655",
      "RAM": "0.50",
      "spotRAM": "0.000892",
      "GPU": "0.95",
      "storage": "0.25",
      "zoneNetworkEgress": "0.01",
      "regionNetworkEgress": "0.01",
      "internetNetworkEgress": "0.12"
    }
```

then reference the ConfigMap created previously by providing helm overrides during install.

```yaml
opencost:
  customPricing:
    # -- Enables custom pricing for on-premise setup.
    enabled: true
    configmapName: CONFIGMAP_NAME_HERE
    # -- Path for the pricing configuration.
    configPath: /tmp/custom-config
    # -- Configures the pricing model provided in the values file.
    createConfigmap: false
```

### Method 2

Provide your custom pricing via helm overrides during install.

```yaml
opencost:
  customPricing:
    # -- Enables custom pricing for on-premise setup.
    enabled: true
    configmapName: custom-pricing-model
    # -- Path for the pricing configuration.
    configPath: /tmp/custom-config
    # -- Configures the pricing model provided in the values file.
    createConfigmap: true
    # -- More information about these values here: https://www.opencost.io/docs/configuration/on-prem#custom-pricing-using-the-opencost-helm-chart
    costModel:
      description: Modified prices based on your internal pricing
      CPU: 1.25
      spotCPU: 0.006655
      RAM: 0.50
      spotRAM: 0.000892
      GPU: 0.95
      storage: 0.25
      zoneNetworkEgress: 0.01
      regionNetworkEgress: 0.01
      internetNetworkEgress: 0.12
```

## On Premises Cloud Cost Configuration

*** There is currently no support for integrating on premises pricing. ***

Commit message:

Add instructions how to overwrite pricing configuration of cloud providers

docs/configuration/on-prem.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# On-Premises Pricing Configuration

On-premises cluster pricing is supported in OpenCost by providing default prices for node data via the [default.json](https://github.com/opencost/opencost/blob/develop/configs/default.json).

```
{
    "provider": "custom",
    "description": "Default prices based on GCP us-central1",
    "CPU": "0.031611",
    "spotCPU": "0.006655",
    "RAM": "0.004237",
    "spotRAM": "0.000892",
    "GPU": "0.95",
    "storage": "0.00005479452",
    "zoneNetworkEgress": "0.01",
    "regionNetworkEgress": "0.01",
    "internetNetworkEgress": "0.12"
}
```

This file is loaded when the OpenCost starts up, providing default prices. You may verify these values by querying Prometheus:
```
kubectl port-forward -n prometheus service/my-prometheus-server 9003:80
curl -s 'http://localhost:9003/api/v1/query?query=node_cpu_hourly_cost' | jq '.data.result[0]'
{
  "metric": {
    "__name__": "node_cpu_hourly_cost",
    "instance": "mom.bottlebru.sh",
    "instance_type": "k3s",
    "job": "opencost",
    "node": "mom.bottlebru.sh",
    "provider_id": "k3s://mom.bottlebru.sh"
  },
  "value": [
    1675411231.44,
    "0.031611"
  ]
}
```
Similarly you can query `node_ram_hourly_cost`, `node_total_hourly_cost`, and `pv_hourly_cost`.

## Modified Default.json Example

You can update the prices in the `default.json` file and rebuild your container with the modified source (make sure permissions are 644 on the `default.json`).
```
{
    "provider": "custom",
    "description": "Modified prices based on arbitrary whims",
    "CPU": "1.25",
    "spotCPU": "0.006655",
    "RAM": "0.50",
    "spotRAM": "0.000892",
    "GPU": "0.95",
    "storage": "0.25",
    "zoneNetworkEgress": "0.01",
    "regionNetworkEgress": "0.01",
    "internetNetworkEgress": "0.12"
}
```
produces output similar to
```
kubectl port-forward -n prometheus service/my-prometheus-server 9003:80
curl -s 'http://localhost:9003/api/v1/query?query=node_cpu_hourly_cost' | jq '.data.result[0]'
{
  "metric": {
    "__name__": "node_cpu_hourly_cost",
    "instance": "mom.bottlebru.sh",
    "instance_type": "k3s",
    "job": "opencost",
    "node": "ndnd.bottlebru.sh",
    "provider_id": "k3s://mom.bottlebru.sh"
  },
  "value": [
    1675416174.822,
    "1.25"
  ]
}
```

This is reflected in the OpenCost UI with substantially higher CPU, RAM and PV costs than before the update.

## Custom pricing using the OpenCost Helm Chart

### Method 1

You can either create your own [ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/) containing your own pricing as structured below:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: CONFIGMAP_NAME_HERE
data:
  default.json: |
    {
      "provider": "custom",
      "description": "Modified prices based on arbitrary whims",
      "CPU": "1.25",
      "spotCPU": "0.006655",
      "RAM": "0.50",
      "spotRAM": "0.000892",
      "GPU": "0.95",
      "storage": "0.25",
      "zoneNetworkEgress": "0.01",
      "regionNetworkEgress": "0.01",
      "internetNetworkEgress": "0.12"
    }
```

then reference the ConfigMap created previously by providing helm overrides during install.

```yaml
opencost:
  customPricing:
    # -- Enables custom pricing for on-premise setup.
    enabled: true
    configmapName: CONFIGMAP_NAME_HERE
    # -- Path for the pricing configuration.
    configPath: /tmp/custom-config
    # -- Configures the pricing model provided in the values file.
    createConfigmap: false
```

You can us this to overwrite pricings for your cloud provider in case you want to consider custom pricing agreements and/or benefits like reserved instances or licensing cost. In case you decide to to this make sure to provide the "correct" `configmapName` since OpenCost relies on distinct names for pricing configuration.

| Provider | Filename |
|----------|----------|
| Azure | azure.json |
| AWS    | aws.json |
| GCP    | gcp.json |
| Scaleway | scaleway.json |
| Alibaba | alibaba.json |
| Oracle | oracle.json |


### Method 2

Provide your custom pricing via helm overrides during install.

```yaml
opencost:
  customPricing:
    # -- Enables custom pricing for on-premise setup.
    enabled: true
    configmapName: custom-pricing-model
    # -- Path for the pricing configuration.
    configPath: /tmp/custom-config
    # -- Configures the pricing model provided in the values file.
    createConfigmap: true
    # -- More information about these values here: https://www.opencost.io/docs/configuration/on-prem#custom-pricing-using-the-opencost-helm-chart
    costModel:
      description: Modified prices based on your internal pricing
      CPU: 1.25
      spotCPU: 0.006655
      RAM: 0.50
      spotRAM: 0.000892
      GPU: 0.95
      storage: 0.25
      zoneNetworkEgress: 0.01
      regionNetworkEgress: 0.01
      internetNetworkEgress: 0.12
```

## On Premises Cloud Cost Configuration

*** There is currently no support for integrating on premises pricing. ***
