docs/integrations/prometheus.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
---
# Working with Prometheus

OpenCost allows you to export pricing data to Prometheus and then write custom queries for cost insights. Below are instructions for accomplishing this and a set of example queries to get you started.

> **Note**: Configuring a Prometheus client is not necessary to emit cost metrics.

## Configuration

```
- job_name: opencost
  honor_labels: true
  scrape_interval: 1m
  scrape_timeout: 10s
  metrics_path: /metrics
  scheme: http
  static_configs:
  - targets:
    - < address of opencost service> # example: <service-name>.<namespace>:<port>
```

## Example queries


Below are a set of sample queries that can be run after Prometheus begins ingesting OpenCost data:

__Total cost of the cluster workload the last 30 days__

```
sort_desc(
  sum by (type, namespace) (
          sum_over_time(
            (
                    label_replace(
                      (
                          (
                              avg by (container, node, namespace, pod) (container_memory_allocation_bytes)
                            * on (node) group_left ()
                              avg by (node) (node_ram_hourly_cost)
                          )
                        /
                          (1024 * 1024 * 1024)
                      ),
                      "type",
                      "ram",
                      "",
                      ""
                    )
                  or
                    label_replace(
                      (
                          avg by (container, node, namespace, pod) (container_cpu_allocation)
                        * on (node) group_left ()
                          avg by (node) (node_cpu_hourly_cost)
                      ),
                      "type",
                      "cpu",
                      "",
                      ""
                    )
                or
                  label_replace(
                    (
                        avg by (container, node, namespace, pod) (container_gpu_allocation)
                      * on (node) group_left ()
                        avg by (node) (node_gpu_hourly_cost)
                    ),
                    "type",
                    "gpu",
                    "",
                    ""
                  )
              or
                label_replace(
                  (
                      (
                          avg by (persistentvolume, namespace, pod) (pod_pvc_allocation)
                        * on (persistentvolume) group_left ()
                          avg by (persistentvolume) (pv_hourly_cost)
                      )
                    /
                      (1024 * 1024 * 1024)
                  ),
                  "type",
                  "storage",
                  "",
                  ""
                )
            )[30d:5m]
          )
        /
          scalar(count_over_time(vector(1)[30d:5m]))
      * 24 * 30
  )
)
```

- `30` Represents the duration over which the data is aggregated, which is 30 days in this case.
- `5m` Defines the accuracy of the data. Modify this to adjust precision:
  - **Decrease** (e.g., to `1m`): Enhances accuracy. It's typically not recommended to set it below the Prometheus scraping interval (`1m` by default)
  - **Increase** Enhances the performance of the query.
- `sum by (type, namespace)`  controls the grouping, available options are `container, namespace, node, pod, type`


__Hourly memory cost for the *default* namespace__

```
sum(
  avg(container_memory_allocation_bytes{namespace="default"}) by (instance) / 1024 / 1024 / 1024
  *
  on(instance) group_left() avg(node_ram_hourly_cost) by (instance)
)
```

__Monthly cost of provisioned nodes__

```
sum(sum_over_time(node_total_hourly_cost[30d:1h]))
```


## Available Metrics

> **Note**: Metrics today have both *instance* and *node* labels. The *instance* label will be deprecated in a future version.

| **Metric** | **Description** |
|---|---|
| node_cpu_hourly_cost | Hourly cost per vCPU on this node |
| node_gpu_hourly_cost | Hourly cost per GPU on this node |
| node_ram_hourly_cost | Hourly cost per GiB of memory on this node |
| node_total_hourly_cost | Total node cost per hour |
| kubecost_load_balancer_cost | Hourly cost of a load balancer |
| kubecost_cluster_management_cost | Hourly cost paid as a cluster management fee |
| pv_hourly_cost | Hourly cost per GiB on a persistent volume |
| node_gpu_count | Number of GPUs available on node |
| container_cpu_allocation | Average number of CPUs requested/used over last 1m |
| container_gpu_allocation | Average number of GPUs requested over last 1m |
| container_memory_allocation_bytes | Average bytes of RAM requested/used over last 1m |
| pod_pvc_allocation | Bytes provisioned for a PVC attached to a pod |
| kubecost_node_is_spot | Cloud provider info about node preemptibility |
| kubecost_network_zone_egress_cost | Total cost per GiB egress across zones |
| kubecost_network_region_egress_cost | Total cost per GiB egress across regions |
| kubecost_network_internet_egress_cost | Total cost per GiB of internet egress |
| service_selector_labels | Service Selector Labels |
| deployment_match_labels | Deployment Match Labels |
| statefulSet_match_labels | StatefulSet Match Labels |
| kubecost_cluster_memory_working_set_bytes | Created by recording rule |
| kubecost_http_requests_total | Total number of http requests serviced |
| kubecost_http_response_time_seconds | Response time in seconds |
| kubecost_http_response_size_bytes | Response size in bytes |

Commit message:

docs: improve OpenCost metrics documentation
Signed-off-by: Abhinav Kumar <abhinavkumar130503@gmail.com>

docs/integrations/prometheus.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
---
# Working with Prometheus

OpenCost allows you to export pricing data to Prometheus and then write custom queries for cost insights. Below are instructions for accomplishing this and a set of example queries to get you started.

> **Note**: Configuring a Prometheus client is not necessary to emit cost metrics.

## Configuration

```
- job_name: opencost
  honor_labels: true
  scrape_interval: 1m
  scrape_timeout: 10s
  metrics_path: /metrics
  scheme: http
  static_configs:
  - targets:
    - < address of opencost service> # example: <service-name>.<namespace>:<port>
```

## Metrics Reference

For a comprehensive list of all metrics used and generated by OpenCost, including:
- Required metrics from external sources (node-exporter, kube-state-metrics)
- Generated cost metrics
- Internal operation metrics
- Best practices for metric filtering and usage

Please refer to our [Metrics Reference Guide](metrics).

## Example queries

Below are a set of sample queries that can be run after Prometheus begins ingesting OpenCost data:

__Total cost of the cluster workload the last 30 days__

```
sort_desc(
  sum by (type, namespace) (
          sum_over_time(
            (
                    label_replace(
                      (
                          (
                              avg by (container, node, namespace, pod) (container_memory_allocation_bytes)
                            * on (node) group_left ()
                              avg by (node) (node_ram_hourly_cost)
                          )
                        /
                          (1024 * 1024 * 1024)
                      ),
                      "type",
                      "ram",
                      "",
                      ""
                    )
                  or
                    label_replace(
                      (
                          avg by (container, node, namespace, pod) (container_cpu_allocation)
                        * on (node) group_left ()
                          avg by (node) (node_cpu_hourly_cost)
                      ),
                      "type",
                      "cpu",
                      "",
                      ""
                    )
                or
                  label_replace(
                    (
                        avg by (container, node, namespace, pod) (container_gpu_allocation)
                      * on (node) group_left ()
                        avg by (node) (node_gpu_hourly_cost)
                    ),
                    "type",
                    "gpu",
                    "",
                    ""
                  )
              
                label_replace(
                  (
                      (
                          avg by (persistentvolume, namespace, pod) (pod_pvc_allocation)
                        * on (persistentvolume) group_left ()
                          avg by (persistentvolume) (pv_hourly_cost)
                      )
                    /
                      (1024 * 1024 * 1024)
                  ),
                  "type",
                  "storage",
                  "",
                  ""
                )
            )[30d:5m]
          )
        /
          scalar(count_over_time(vector(1)[30d:5m]))
      * 24 * 30
  )
)
```

- `30` Represents the duration over which the data is aggregated, which is 30 days in this case.
- `5m` Defines the accuracy of the data. Modify this to adjust precision:
  - **Decrease** (e.g., to `1m`): Enhances accuracy. It's typically not recommended to set it below the Prometheus scraping interval (`1m` by default)
  - **Increase** Enhances the performance of the query.
- `sum by (type, namespace)`  controls the grouping, available options are `container, namespace, node, pod, type`


__Hourly memory cost for the *default* namespace__

```
sum(
  avg(container_memory_allocation_bytes{namespace="default"}) by (instance) / 1024 / 1024 / 1024
  *
  on(instance) group_left() avg(node_ram_hourly_cost) by (instance)
)
```

__Monthly cost of provisioned nodes__

```
sum(sum_over_time(node_total_hourly_cost[30d:1h]))
```

For more example queries and detailed metric information, please refer to our [Metrics Reference Guide](metrics).

## Available Metrics

> **Note**: Metrics today have both *instance* and *node* labels. The *instance* label will be deprecated in a future version.

| **Metric** | **Description** |
|---|---|
| node_cpu_hourly_cost | Hourly cost per vCPU on this node |
| node_gpu_hourly_cost | Hourly cost per GPU on this node |
| node_ram_hourly_cost | Hourly cost per GiB of memory on this node |
| node_total_hourly_cost | Total node cost per hour |
| kubecost_load_balancer_cost | Hourly cost of a load balancer |
| kubecost_cluster_management_cost | Hourly cost paid as a cluster management fee |
| pv_hourly_cost | Hourly cost per GiB on a persistent volume |
| node_gpu_count | Number of GPUs available on node |
| container_cpu_allocation | Average number of CPUs requested/used over last 1m |
| container_gpu_allocation | Average number of GPUs requested over last 1m |
| container_memory_allocation_bytes | Average bytes of RAM requested/used over last 1m |
| pod_pvc_allocation | Bytes provisioned for a PVC attached to a pod |
| kubecost_node_is_spot | Cloud provider info about node preemptibility |
| kubecost_network_zone_egress_cost | Total cost per GiB egress across zones |
| kubecost_network_region_egress_cost | Total cost per GiB egress across regions |
| kubecost_network_internet_egress_cost | Total cost per GiB of internet egress |
| service_selector_labels | Service Selector Labels |
| deployment_match_labels | Deployment Match Labels |
| statefulSet_match_labels | StatefulSet Match Labels |
| kubecost_cluster_memory_working_set_bytes | Created by recording rule |
| kubecost_http_requests_total | Total number of http requests serviced |
| kubecost_http_response_time_seconds | Response time in seconds |
| kubecost_http_response_size_bytes | Response size in bytes |
